Controls, frameworks, and compliance
Previously, you were introduced to security frameworks and how they provide a structured approach to implementing a security lifecycle. As a reminder, a security lifecycle is a constantly evolving set of policies and standards. In this reading, you will learn more about how security frameworks, controls, and compliance regulations—or laws—are used together to manage security and make sure everyone does their part to minimize risk.
How controls, frameworks, and compliance are related
The confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. 
 
CIA are the three foundational principles used by cybersecurity professionals to establish appropriate controls that mitigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
As you may recall, security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. So they are used alongside frameworks to ensure that security goals and processes are implemented correctly and that organizations meet regulatory compliance requirements.
Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. They have four core components:
1.	Identifying and documenting security goals 
2.	Setting guidelines to achieve security goals 
3.	Implementing strong security processes
4.	Monitoring and communicating results
Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.
Specific controls, frameworks, and compliance
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a U.S.-based agency that develops multiple voluntary compliance frameworks that organizations worldwide can use to help manage risk. The more aligned an organization is with compliance, the lower the risk.
Examples of frameworks include the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF). 
Note: Specifications and guidelines can change depending on the type of organization you work for.
In addition to the NIST CSF and NIST RMF, there are several other controls, frameworks, and compliance standards that are important for security professionals to be familiar with to help keep organizations and the people they serve safe.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)
FERC-NERC is a regulation that applies to organizations that work with electricity or that are involved with the U.S. and North American power grid. These types of organizations have an obligation to prepare for, mitigate, and report any potential security incident that can negatively affect the power grid. They are also legally required to adhere to the Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards defined by the FERC. 
The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)
FedRAMP is a U.S. federal government program that standardizes security assessment, authorization, monitoring, and handling of cloud services and product offerings. Its purpose is to provide consistency across the government sector and third-party cloud providers. 
Center for Internet Security (CIS®)
CIS is a nonprofit with multiple areas of emphasis. It provides a set of controls that can be used to safeguard systems and networks against attacks. Its purpose is to help organizations establish a better plan of defense. CIS also provides actionable controls that security professionals may follow if a security incident occurs. 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GDPR is a European Union (E.U.) general data regulation that protects the processing of E.U. residents’ data and their right to privacy in and out of E.U. territory. For example, if an organization is not being transparent about the data they are holding about an E.U. citizen and why they are holding that data, this is an infringement that can result in a fine to the organization. Additionally, if a breach occurs and an E.U. citizen’s data is compromised, they must be informed. The affected organization has 72 hours to notify the E.U. citizen about the breach.
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is to reduce credit card fraud. 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
HIPAA is a U.S. federal law established in 1996 to protect patients' health information. This law prohibits patient information from being shared without their consent. It is governed by three rules: 
1.	Privacy
2.	Security 
3.	Breach notification 
Organizations that store patient data have a legal obligation to inform patients of a breach because if patients' Protected Health Information (PHI) is exposed, it can lead to identity theft and insurance fraud. PHI relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, whether it’s a plan of care or payments for care. Along with understanding HIPAA as a law, security professionals also need to be familiar with the Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST®), which is a security framework and assurance program that helps institutions meet HIPAA compliance.
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services. 
System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants® (AICPA) auditing standards board developed this standard. The SOC1 and SOC2 are a series of reports that focus on an organization's user access policies at different organizational levels such as: 
•	Associate
•	Supervisor
•	Manager
•	Executive
•	Vendor 
•	Others 
They are used to assess an organization’s financial compliance and levels of risk. They also cover confidentiality, privacy, integrity, availability, security, and overall data safety. Control failures in these areas can lead to fraud.
Pro tip: There are a number of regulations that are frequently revised. You are encouraged to keep up-to-date with changes and explore more frameworks, controls, and compliance. Two suggestions to research: the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
United States Presidential Executive Order 14028
On May 12, 2021, President Joe Biden released an executive order related to improving the nation’s cybersecurity to remediate the increase in threat actor activity. Remediation efforts are directed toward federal agencies and third parties with ties to U.S. critical infrastructure. For additional information, review the Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity.
Key takeaways
In this reading you learned more about controls, frameworks, and compliance. You also learned how they work together to help organizations maintain a low level of risk.
As a security analyst, it’s important to stay up-to-date on common frameworks, controls, and compliance regulations and be aware of changes to the cybersecurity landscape to help ensure the safety of both organizations and people.

Tools for protecting business operations
Previously, you were introduced to several technical skills that security analysts need to develop. You were also introduced to some tools entry-level security analysts may have in their toolkit. In this reading, you’ll learn more about how technical skills and tools help security analysts mitigate risks.
An entry-level analyst’s toolkit
Every organization may provide a different toolkit, depending on its security needs. As a future analyst, it’s important that you are familiar with industry standard tools and can demonstrate your ability to learn how to use similar tools in a potential workplace. 
 
Security information and event management (SIEM) tools
A SIEM tool is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization. A log is a record of events that occur within an organization’s systems. Depending on the amount of data you’re working with, it could take hours or days to filter through log data on your own. SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an analyst must review by providing alerts for specific types of threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
SIEM tools provide a series of dashboards that visually organize data into categories, allowing users to select the data they wish to analyze. Different SIEM tools have different dashboard types that display the information you have access to. 
SIEM tools also come with different hosting options, including on-premise and cloud. Organizations may choose one hosting option over another based on a security team member’s expertise. For example, because a cloud-hosted version tends to be easier to set up, use, and maintain than an on-premise version, a less experienced security team may choose this option for their organization.
Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)
A network protocol analyzer, also known as a packet sniffer, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic in a network. This means that the tool keeps a record of all the data that a computer within an organization's network encounters. Later in the program, you’ll have an opportunity to practice using some common network protocol analyzer (packet sniffer) tools. 
Playbooks
A playbook is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to a security incident. Organizations usually have multiple playbooks documenting processes and procedures for their teams to follow. Playbooks vary from one organization to the next, but they all have a similar purpose: To guide analysts through a series of steps to complete specific security-related tasks. 
For example, consider the following scenario: You are working as a security analyst for an incident response firm. You are given a case involving a small medical practice that has suffered a security breach. Your job is to help with the forensic investigation and provide evidence to a cybersecurity insurance company. They will then use your investigative findings to determine whether the medical practice will receive their insurance payout. 
In this scenario, playbooks would outline the specific actions you need to take to conduct the investigation. Playbooks also help ensure that you are following proper protocols and procedures. When working on a forensic case, there are two playbooks you might follow:
•	The first type of playbook you might consult is called the chain of custody playbook. Chain of custody is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle. As a security analyst involved in a forensic analysis, you will work with the computer data that was breached. You and the forensic team will also need to document who, what, where, and why you have the collected evidence. The evidence is your responsibility while it is in your possession. Evidence must be kept safe and tracked. Every time evidence is moved, it should be reported. This allows all parties involved to know exactly where the evidence is at all times.
•	The second playbook your team might use is called the protecting and preserving evidence playbook. Protecting and preserving evidence is the process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence. As a security analyst, understanding what fragile and volatile digital evidence is, along with why there is a procedure, is critical. As you follow this playbook, you will consult the order of volatility, which is a sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last. It prioritizes volatile data, which is data that may be lost if the device in question powers off, regardless of the reason. While conducting an investigation, improper management of digital evidence can compromise and alter that evidence. When evidence is improperly managed during an investigation, it can no longer be used. For this reason, the first priority in any investigation is to properly preserve the data. You can preserve the data by making copies and conducting your investigation using those copies.
Key takeaways
In this reading, you learned about a few tools a security analyst may have in their toolkit, depending on where they work. You also explored two important types of playbooks: chain of custody and protecting and preserving evidence. However, these are only two procedures that occur at the beginning of a forensic investigation. If forensic investigations interest you, you are encouraged to further explore this career path or security practice. In the process, you may learn about forensic tools that you want to add to your toolkit. While all of the forensic components that make up an investigation will not be covered in this certificate program, some forensic concepts will be discussed in later courses.
Resources for more information
The Google Cybersecurity Action Team's Threat Horizon Report provides strategic intelligence for dealing with threats to cloud enterprise.
The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has a list of Free Cybersecurity Services and Tools. Review the list to learn more about open-source cybersecurity tools.

Use tools to protect business operations
Previously, you were introduced to programming, operating systems, and tools commonly used by cybersecurity professionals. In this reading, you’ll learn more about programming and operating systems, as well as other tools that entry-level analysts use to help protect organizations and the people they serve. 
Tools and their purposes
Programming 
Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. Security analysts use programming languages, such as Python, to execute automation. Automation is the use of technology to reduce human and manual effort in performing common and repetitive tasks. Automation also helps reduce the risk of human error.
Another programming language used by analysts is called Structured Query Language (SQL). SQL is used to create, interact with, and request information from a database. A database is an organized collection of information or data. There can be millions of data points in a database. A data point is a specific piece of information. 
Operating systems
An operating system is the interface between computer hardware and the user. Linux®, macOS®, and Windows are operating systems. They each offer different functionality and user experiences. 
Previously, you were introduced to Linux as an open-source operating system. Open source means that the code is available to the public and allows people to make contributions to improve the software. Linux is not a programming language; however, it does involve the use of a command line within the operating system. A command is an instruction telling the computer to do something. A command-line interface is a text-based user interface that uses commands to interact with the computer. You will learn more about Linux, including the Linux kernel and GNU, in a later course.
Web vulnerability
A web vulnerability is a unique flaw in a web application that a threat actor could exploit by using malicious code or behavior, to allow unauthorized access, data theft, and malware deployment.
To stay up-to-date on the most critical risks to web applications, review the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10.
Antivirus software
Antivirus software is a software program used to prevent, detect, and eliminate malware and viruses. It is also called anti-malware. Depending on the type of antivirus software, it can scan the memory of a device to find patterns that indicate the presence of malware. 
